---
layout: default
title: Process 
section: Overview
permalink: /docs/overview/process/
---

# Process

Next uses a simple, [lightweight](http://www.agilemanifesto.org/) process to
help communicate what everyone is working on.

The emphasis is on small teams, self-organisation, incremental delivery, and [short
feedback
loops](http://www.startuplessonslearned.com/2010/09/good-enough-never-is-or-is-it.html)

We practice [continuous
deployment](http://martinfowler.com/bliki/ContinuousDelivery.html) to remove the risks around software delivery.

## Team structure

Individual teams typically consist of:

- A product owner
- Some developers
- One or two designers
- UX, where available

We do not have ‘project managers’ or ‘scrum masters’.  Instead, teams are accountable for delivering everything that they have committed to in their roadmaps (which they themselves write) on time.

Additionally, teams are responsible for communicating their progress to the rest of the business in a clear and concise way and for ensuring the features they develop meet the needs of both the business and the product's users.

## Quarterly

At the outset of every quarter (i.e. 12 weeks) teams get together to discuss
their objectives after talking to various stakeholders around the business.

Here are the plans for Q3, August - September 2015 (2 months) :-

The focus is on these six things,

1. Team Frequency and Recency: MyFT enhancements; "Recommend"; include other content (video etc.)
1. Team MyFt: Clippings, MyFT API.
1. Team Frontpage: Homepage enhancements, more users scrolling further (including front page Markets Data component).
1. Team Engagement: Article page enhancements, onward journeys (related & broader links), design/component improvements.
1. Team Usage and Anonymous: B2B/B2C prompts & onsite marketing messaging.
1. Team Platform: Monitoring, service levels, QA, audience migration.

Which is to also include a set of [miscellaneous
features](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1oTOlc115Sr8xYCrqZOqWtn57fyl91lri8itoRWpp1oA/edit),
divided amongst the teams.

### Previously

Here were the plans for Q2, May - July 2015 (3 months) :-

- [Team: Engagement](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1tBlnPyzBW_LLX2tkAi-Y8ez9Dh-QOPfl0om_PyFyvzE/edit)
- [Team: Anonymous Experience](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1h-YF7OQSgQrkguJ3fjkTtfN3x0_7oMrcZar8Ooxeis8/edit#slide=id.p)
- [Team: Frequency and Recency](https://docs.google.com/a/ft.com/presentation/d/1efHFDYB9ubu1RTTD5Rq5HwEhcQgLU5aqzjIJHAfRN10/edit?usp=drive_web)
- [Team: Styleguide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rT5njibCzPXtpegLvvfYdLkpn7lPHSOG18B0yFFU4yQ/edit)
- [Team: Usage](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mpxcELXDHPyXj9-KjfQAW2-H1MnPNJEG8ZrgoM4ql4Y/edit)

The [Q1 plan](http://matt.chadburn.co.uk/drop/q1.next.png). 

A long term horizon view is available too :-

 - [2016](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/14zs5GqI4oC5N84UqorTDoqTx1j66vh1FlLPJ5ehOHVY/edit#slide=id.p)

The [May 2015 board update](https://docs.google.com/a/ft.com/file/d/0B0DDxFh3ZO93UjNWZ2s3anNBV00) board update contains the state of play and useful background information about the motivation behind the project.

## Weekly

On **Monday** at 10am the whole team meets for an hour or so to discuss the week
ahead and the week just gone.

Next values independent thought. Make sure you come to this meeting with a plan
with what you and your team want to achieve for the week. Ideally you'll be focussed
on improving a specific metric or two. 

Every **Friday** morning the project's stakeholders meet to discuss the
week's actvities and have a chance to feedback before the following Monday.

## Misc.

Every other **Tuesday** we have a [team retrospective](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Xk0EN824hOVTXXgbbPXoxJp3qGcnFHZ0k-DW0HZ62zk/edit). This gives everyone an
opportunity to reflect on what improvements we need to make.

Every other **Friday** you'll be asked to present your work at the department's
showcase. This helps explain our progress to the wider team.

Every two weeks, typically on **Thursdays**, there's a user testing session in
the office. Speak to Jess or Victoria if you want to get involved.

We also have [development meetups](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_5BVMINvi4JvET3Ue17EJdDihb5Q2UVlfKcDFlfLENY/edit#), as required.
